The tool that we're gonna be using today
is a library called Observable Plot.
This is, again,
by the creators of Observable and D3.
So it is meant to kind of go as
a complement to libraries like D3, again,
sort of on a higher level of abstraction.
You can read all about it at
observablehq.com/@observablehq/plot.
It's also open source.
You can see all the source code
on GitHub and dig into it and
even make contributions or
raise issues if you see any problems.
But essentially, Plot is based on
something called the grammar of graphics.
So this is a system for understanding
the abstractions of data visualization.
That folks who have spent their
career developing notions
of data vis have come up with
as a way of kind of breaking
the task of visualization
down into some core concepts.
And a few of the core concepts that we're
gonna explore today are these four that
are up here.
So on the one hand, we have marks.
In a grammar of graphics,
you have the notion of different types of
marks that you can draw on the screen.
So this might be, for example,
ticks like in that first test
jobs visualization we saw before.
Or it might be bars or
rectangles, like in a bar chart.
It might be dots or other symbols,
x's, what have you.
So these different types of marks,
you can then compose and
put one on top of the other or
use different marks for
different features of the dataset to
convey meaning in different ways.
The other notion that we already
talked a little bit about are scales.
So these are, again, those mappings of
essentially how we get from abstract data
space to concrete graphical space.
There's also a notion of transforms,
where these are sort of similar to what we
mentioned in the data
wrangling side of things.
These are transforms that might do things
like tell us the average over a moving
window, let's say,
if we have some time series data.
Or the sum of all the values that
we care about in this dataset, etc.
So we're gonna take a look at a couple
of those, especially for grouping data,
aggregating it together.
And also for kind of separating data
out when we have a continuous space and
we wanna chunk it up into different bins,
let's say.
Then there's also a notion of facet.
So speaking of separating data out,
we'll look at some of the use cases
where it can be really useful
to do what's called faceting.
Where facets are essentially small
little versions of the visualization
that we're trying to make that are focused
on a particular subset of the data.
This is also called small multiples.
So marks, scales, transforms, and facets,
these are a few of the kind of building
blocks, the conceptual building blocks
that the grammar of graphics uses.
And that plot employs or implements so
that we can compose custom visualizations
out of these core concepts.
So we're gonna dig into these through
our hands-on exercises, yeah.
>> Is tidy.js basically R's
subset of tidyverse packages?
>> Is tidy.js R-
>> R's set of tidyverse packages.
I am not familiar enough
with tidy.js to want to
answer that without saying
anything incorrect.
So the tidy.js package,
I believe, is also open source.
So I would definitely think that if that
isn't covered in the documentation there,
it is certainly a question that can
be asked of the maintainers there.
And there are also quite a lot of
Observable notebooks around tidy.js, so
it's probably something we can discover
from the notebook ecosystem as well.
So the last thing that we're gonna talk
about after we dig through our hands-on
exercises is how we can share our
beautiful visualizations with the world.
So Plot is just a JavaScript library.
So that means that you can draw these
plots that we're gonna look at today.
Wherever you can draw,
use JavaScript, essentially.
So we're gonna look later at some examples
of how to use Plot with Observable,
which is what we're gonna
be building with today.
But also how to use Plot just in your
vanilla JS projects or in projects using
React, for example, and other frameworks
follow essentially the same principle.
Okay, shall we jump in?
Cuz I've been yakking for a long time and
we should get our hands on some data.
So today,
we are going to have a little intro.
It's done, yay, I can stop talking now.
We're gonna work through a few different
projects to wrap our heads around some
of those core concepts, as we said.
The first one is going to be looking
at some of those test jobs in CI.
And so by asking ourselves, are tests
passing, and how quickly, and how often,
we're going to be learning a bit
about features in the dataset.
And how we can map those to what
are called encoding channels or
different properties of the visualization.
Then in our second project,
we're going to examine some usage data,
or mock usage data,
to understand what kind of devices,
what sizes folks are browsing with.
And that is going to teach us a little bit
more about aggregating data and splitting
plots up into facets so that we can answer
the right questions that we care about.
Finally, our last project is going to be
looking at some mock API response data,
some API logs data, essentially.
And by doing that, we're gonna
explore how to add interactivity
to our visualizations so that folks
can explore the dataset themselves and
get the answers that they
particularly care about.
So, essentially, how we can expose
that flexibility to our users.
And then finally, we will take a look at
some examples for using Plot in different
ways around the web and wrap up with some
takeaways and some links for next steps.
So all of the projects that we're gonna
be doing are linked in these materials.
If folks have been having any
difficulty accessing the materials,
please let me know.
But each of them is going to be
in an Observable notebook, and so
that is what we are going to jump into.